Document Typical Development Workflow (#35)
Benned-H/spot_skills: CONTRIBUTING.md

# How to Contribute to `spot_skills`

## Typical Workflow

This section outlines the typical workflow for contributing to `spot_skills` and related codebases, involving these high-level steps:

1. Set up the environment.
2. Create a feature branch.
3. Push early and open a pull request (PR).
4. Make iterative, atomic commits.
5. Review and merge the PR.

### 1. Set Up the Local Development Environment

- **Clone the repository and submodules using SSH**:

  ```bash
  git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:Benned-H/spot_skills.git
  cd spot_skills
  ```

- **Activate the Docker environment (builds or pulls the necessary image)**:

  ```bash
  bash docker/launch.sh
  ```

  You can use this script whenever you want to enter the Docker container.

### 2. Create a Feature Branch

> Whenever you begin a new task for the project, create a branch on GitHub to track the effort. In principle, each branch should introduce a single clearly defined new feature to the codebase. In this so-called [feature branch](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/FeatureBranch.html) style of development, changes are only integrated into the `main` branch once they're working. This keeps the `main` branch stable, providing a foundation on which others can simultaneously develop independent features in separate feature branches.

Author: ```suggestion
Whenever you begin a new task for the project, create a branch on GitHub to track the effort. In principle, each branch should introduce a single, well-defined feature to the codebase. In this so-called [feature branch](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/FeatureBranch.html) style of development, changes are only integrated into the `main` branch once they're complete. This keeps the `main` branch stable, providing a foundation enabling the simultaneous development of independent features in separate feature branches.
```

- **Sync with `main`**:

  ```bash
  git checkout main
  git pull origin main
  git submodule update --init --recursive
  ```

- **Create a new feature branch**:

  ```bash
  git checkout -b <branch-name>
  ```

>   Name the branch descriptively (e.g. `edit-urdf`).

Author: ```suggestion
  Name the branch descriptively but concisely (e.g. `edit-urdf`).
```

- **Push to the remote**:

  ```bash
  git push --set-upstream origin <branch-name>
  ```

- **Open a Draft Pull Request (PR)**:

  - Create a PR on GitHub right away. If you've just pushed to your branch, the "Pull requests" tab should provide a pop-up button to create a PR for your branch.
  - Set the base branch to `main` and the `compare` branch to your new `<branch-name>`.
  - In the description, describe the purpose of the branch in a sentence or two. What is this branch supposed to do?
  - End the description with a **Done When** sentence: _What outcome will have been accomplished when this PR can be considered "done"?_ For example:

    > **Done When**: MoveIt controls Spot's gripper to open and close throughout the MoveIt-Spot demo.

  - After you've created the task's PR(s), **add the relevant links to the Slack task** in the "Pull Request(s)" column.

### 4. Make Frequent Atomic Commits

- **Implement and commit code iteratively**:

  - Keep commits [atomic](https://www.aleksandrhovhannisyan.com/blog/atomic-git-commits/) and frequent. Each commit should reflect one logical change or update:
    ```bash
    git add <specific-files>

>     git commit -m "Add feature X for task Y"

Author: ```suggestion
    git commit -m "Add method X to class Y"
```

    ```

- **Push frequently** to keep the remote branch up-to-date:

  ```bash
  git push origin <branch-name>
  ```

> 

Author: Comment about leaving local changes on shared machines.
